DOCS-295: Adapt/rewrite old script into how-to for TrueNAS with AWS. (#60)
freenas/documentation: content/en/docs/TrueNAS/tn-aws.md

---
title: "TrueNAS on Amazon Web Services (AWS)"
linkTitle: "TrueNAS on AWS"
description: "How to create a TrueNAS image and use it with Amazon Web Services"
---

{{% pageinfo version="FreeNAS 11.2" %}}
{{% /pageinfo %}}

## Process Summary

* Requirements
  * FreeBSD system
  * AWS Account
  * S3 Bucket
  * User with permissions for EC2
    * Download the user key to the local working directory
  * Install bhyve and bsdec2-image-upload
* Create TrueNAS image file
  * Download TrueNAS .iso
  * Create blank image file
  * Load virtualization module
  * Create tap and bridge interface
  * Load image and iso into bhyve
  * Install TrueNAS
  * Reload image into bhyve
* Configure image networking
  * Reset network interface
  * Create DHCP interface `xn0`
  * Reset configuration to default
  * Power off device
* Upload image to EC2

>   * description and region name are required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Description and region name are required
```

Reviewer: Its the only line not capitalized, so it looks off.  If it should be lower case then ignore this suggestion

Create a new DHCP interface named `xn0`, then reset configurations to default.
Power off the device.

### Upload Image to EC2

Now that the image has been created and properly configured, it’s time to upload it to EC2.
Use `bsdec2-image-upload` with the image file:
`bsdec2-image-upload --public {TRUENAS}.img TrueNAS {description} {region} {S3 bucket} KEY.pem`
Replace {TRUENAS} with the image file name, {description} with a unique identifier for the Amazon Machine Image (AMI), {region} with your [Amazon region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.RegionsAndAvailabilityZones.html), and {S3 bucket} with your AWS image storage location.
`KEY.pem` is the IAM user access key that was downloaded earlier.
All of these elements are required for the upload to start.

`bsdec2-image-upload` sends the image to the AWS bucket in 10MB segments.
The upload can take as long as an hour, depending on connection speeds and other factors.

When the S3 bucket upload is complete, the script will create a snapshot, register the AMI, and copy the AMI to all regions for mirrors.

> The upload command fails if the image doesn't work for some reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The upload command will fail if the image doesn't work for some reason.
```

Reviewer: or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the image doesn't work for some reason, the upload command will fail.
```
